Good morning, everyone.
Thank you all for coming to session 536,
Developing Xsan-Friendly Applications.
My name is Jason Thorpe.
I'm the engineering manager for Xsan.
So here's a little bit about
what you're going to learn today.
First of all, you're going to learn what
XAN is and how it works.
Raise your hand if
you're an XAN user today.
You have one deployed.
All right.
That's a good amount of you.
So for you guys,
this is going to be a review,
because I'm sure you're
all familiar with it.
How many of you are
considering deploying an XAN?
And how many of you are
developing applications that
you would like to work with XAN?
OK, so this background information,
you guys are really going
to pay attention to this,
especially application developers.
Secondly,
we're going to talk about some of
the XAN volume characteristics.
Again, application developers pay
careful attention to this.
This is really targeted at you guys.
And finally,
we're going to talk about tips on making
those applications both compatible
and how to make them work better.
So let's just jump right into the basics.
So for those of you who don't know,
Xsan is the SAN file system for Mac OS X.
SAN stands for Storage Area Network.
Network -- that's a key
concept to keep in mind as we
go throughout this discussion.
It actually describes a lot
of the behaviors -- explains a
lot of the behaviors of Xsan.
What Xsan does is it allows multiple
computers to have high-speed
access to a shared pool of storage.
And it differs from the traditional
file server in a number of ways,
which we'll go into shortly.
And let's just take a look at what
some customers are saying about Xsan.
So, JW2,
they are the in-house production facility
for the award-winning JWT ad agency.
And Xsan has allowed them
and their creative staff to
work in a really organic way,
to collaborate in ways
they couldn't do before,
because they can share all
their assets quite easily.
So, Bunamuri Productions,
they're a television production company.
They make some TV shows you
may have seen or heard of,
including MTV's "The Real World" and
Fox's "Simple Life." The combination
of Xsan and Final Cut Pro has allowed
them to do all their TV production
editing really in real time.
You know,
they're on really tight schedules,
and it allows them to do this very
quickly at a fraction of the cost of
other solutions that are out there.
So how many of you watched the Olympics?
Raise your hand.
Did you enjoy some of the stuff
that they were able to do?
So NBC actually had a very large Xsan.
It was over 20 terabyte.
And they used a completely Mac-based
workflow on that Xsan to take
the content from the cameras that
are out at the actual events,
edit it, add motion graphics and
commentary and whatnot.
And they actually had three
Power Mac G5s that were connected
to the Xsan that were able to play
that content out directly to air.
And of course,
these are just a few examples of the many
organizations that are using Xsan today.
So the benefits that Xsan brings
to its customers has really enabled
-- has really made Xsan one of,
if not the fastest-growing
SAN solutions out there in terms
of the number of deployments.
So what does this mean to you
as application developers?
Well, first and foremost,
it means that if your
application is compatible with,
you know, works well with Xsan,
it's going to have an advantage in
the marketplace up against another,
you know,
competing product that does not.
It also means that as the
number of Xsan deployments grow,
you know, one of the things that we
hear a lot from customers is,
"Hey, you know, does this work with Xsan?
Does that work with Xsan?" And, you know,
your application doesn't want to be
left out as more places adopt Xsan.
So that's what Xsan is.
Let's talk about some of how it works.
So what we see here is
a very basic Xsan setup.
What we're going to do is
kind of just walk through,
highlight each piece,
and describe a little
bit about what it does.
So first of all,
we have the Xsan controller.
So the Xsan controller is really -- it's
kind of the key focal piece of the SAN.
It actually controls all aspects
of file access within the volume.
It's not involved in the data transfer,
but it actually controls where
the data is located on the disk,
how blocks are allocated,
the policy for block allocation,
and also manages all the volume metadata.
So this is not to be confused
with Spotlight metadata.
We're talking about very basic
things like file attributes such
as the owner group and permissions.
And also it manages all
the directory entries.
So anything revolving
around file creation,
deletion, and renaming,
all that is handled by
the Xsan controller.
And the Xsan controller also
manages the byte range locks.
So unlike some other
SAN solutions that are out there,
Xsan provides file-based locking that
has the granularity of individual
ranges of bytes within a file,
whereas other SAN solutions out
there might lock out all other
clients from updating files,
writing files,
while one other computer is operating.
So it's a very simple setup.
So let's talk about the Xsan controller.
is updating them.
So the next piece -- there's no real
surprise here -- is the XServe RAID.
It basically provides
the backend storage.
So it stores your volume
metadata and your file data.
Next, we have the clients.
These are the workstations,
the servers that actually connect to
the SAN and use the SAN to do work.
It might be a
Final Cut Pro editing station,
it might be a cluster node
in an HPC environment,
or it might be a server that's
providing file services to
other clients on the network.
The clients actually access the
data directly over Fibre Channel.
They don't actually have to go through
the controller to get that data,
so that makes it unlike a sort
of traditional file server.
However, they do have to send messages
to the controller to gain
access to that file data,
which we'll go over in just a minute.
So next here we have the
Fiber Channel Switch.
This is really kind of the glue
piece that binds everything together.
It allows you to connect your clients,
your controller,
and all the RAIDs together to
form what we call a fabric.
Without the switch,
you'd be able to only do really a
direct-attach scenario where you have
one computer attached to a single RAID.
And it's useful in some environments,
but not in others.
So we can't forget the cables, of course.
And then finally,
we have a private Ethernet network
that connects all the clients
and the controllers together.
A lot of people ask me, "Well,
why do we have this private Ethernet
network?" The reason we have this is
because the messages that are sent
between the clients and the controller,
they're very small.
And for those of you who have been
network administrators for a long time,
you know that small packets are kind
of the pessimal workload for a network.
So by keeping the SAN traffic away from
your normal local area network traffic,
you're kind of doing two things.
First of all,
you're preventing the SAN traffic from
slowing down your email reading and your
web surfing and all the other things
that you do on your local area network.
At the same time,
you're also preventing the
traffic on your local area
network from kind of competing for
the available network resources
that the SAN network is providing.
So you can see here that the
SAN network is actually using the
same network that the SAN uses,
which actually improves the
overall performance of the SAN,
because you need to have that
responsiveness between the
client and the controller.
So, unlike other volume formats
supported by Mac OS X,
Xsan has this concept of storage pools.
It allows you to actually structure
your data around on the disks in kind of
different ways that match your workload.
Now, you always have to have one
storage pool that's dedicated
to holding your volume metadata.
Here we've highlighted one
of the RAID sets there.
We actually strongly recommend
that you put this on its own
dedicated RAID controller.
The reason for this is that the
transactions involved in the
volume metadata are -- again,
they're small -- and you don't
want those to really interfere
with the streaming of data.
You know,
say you have a large video clip to read.
You don't want these individual metadata
transactions to be interfering with being
able to stream the data off the disk.
So, again,
we strongly recommend that you have
a dedicated RAID controller for this.
Next, in our little example here,
what we've done is we've actually
pooled the other RAID sets together
to form a single large storage pool.
Another thing that Xsan allows you
to do is to create what we call
"affinities" -- it allows you to assign
an affinity to a folder in the volume.
What that does is it allows you to steer
data to individual storage pools just
simply by copying it to that folder.
Now, in this example here,
it doesn't make much sense --
we only have one user data pool,
but as we go along the slide,
you'll see how this makes a
little more sense as we go along.
And, of course,
one of the things that's really nice
about Xsan is that the controller
really puts us all together and shows
it just as one volume on the desktop.
You don't have to put your users
through dealing with 12 different
drive icons in a desktop just to
know where to store their data.
It's all one volume.
Now, in this example,
we're talking about just one volume.
Of course,
you're not limited to just one.
You can actually have up to 20 of these.
So what we're going to do now is we're
going to just kind of step through a
simplified write operation and highlight
each of the components that's involved,
just to kind of illustrate
better a little how this works.
So first of all,
the application on our client
here decides it wants to
write some data to the volume.
So it uses the write system call,
and in response,
the Xsan client software on that computer
sends a message to the controller,
Basically asking where that
file is located on disk.
So next,
the controller consults the volume
metadata that we have on our first
RAID set there and basically it
traverses its data structures to
determine where that file is located.
If the data blocks for that
file are not allocated,
it goes ahead and allocates them.
And then it responds back to
the client with what we call an
"extent list," which basically
describes the layout of that file.
Each time the client has to write a file,
let's say for example that this client
wanted to write the same range of the
file over and over and over again.
It does not actually have to
contact the controller each time.
It is able to cache the information,
and then the controller will send
a notification to the client when
that information becomes out of date.
So,
armed with that extent list information,
the client is then able to go
over Fibre Channel directly
to write that data to disk.
Now,
note here that the controller actually
allocated the storage for that file
and spread it across each of the three
RAID sets in our User Data Storage Pool.
And by doing so,
it actually allowed the client
to write to those three RAIDs in
parallel to increase the throughput.
So that's how Xsan works, basically.
And this little example
isn't all that interesting.
There's just one computer.
This is kind of glorified
direct-attached storage.
But one of the beauties of Xsan,
of course, is because it's a network,
it allows you to connect
multiple clients to the SAN.
They have access to the SAN,
first-class access to that storage
on a kind of a peer-to-peer level.
Now, let's say you've been using your
SAN for a while and you suddenly
realize that you need some new
space to store your audio clips.
You've run out of space or your
audio clips are kind of interfering
with being able to stream video
off of your other storage pool.
Xsan actually would then
just simply allow you to
plop on another storage pool,
expand the volume without
having to recreate it,
and you could basically add
another storage pool for this
different kind of workload.
You could tune that second
storage pool for the type of
data you want to put on it.
And this is where affinities
would become very useful.
You could create a folder at
the top level of your volume,
say this is my audio folder,
assign it to that pool.
Any content that went in there would be
automatically assigned to those drives,
and it wouldn't interfere with
being able to read and write data
quickly from the other storage pool.
Now, let's say, for example, again,
that you've gone from
shooting static to video.
And you've got a lot of data
that's standard definition video
to moving to high definition video,
and suddenly you realize that
you need more throughput.
Well, again, XAN would simply allow
you to add another RAID.
It would allow you to assign that
RAID to your existing storage
pool and to expand the throughput
available to that storage pool.
Xsan also allows you to add
redundant volume controllers.
This basically protects you in the
event that your primary controller
were to fail for some reason,
for any of the number of reasons
that computers sometimes fail.
So, that's how it works.
Let's talk a little bit about the
characteristics of Xsan volumes.
So, the next point I'm about to make
is probably the most important
one I can say to all you
application developers out there.
If this is the one thing that
you were to come away with,
I would want it to be this:
Xsan is not HFS+. It has a much different
heritage than HFS+. The technological
underpinnings are very different.
In a lot of ways,
it does not have some of the same
capabilities or features that HFS+ has.
And so,
we find that when applications depend
on some of those features of HFS+, the
applications either do not perform well
on Xsan or they'll fail to work at all.
So it's not like HFS+. Well,
what is it like?
Well, in many ways,
it is like any direct attached
volume that you have on your system.
You have high speed access to that data.
You can depend on that sort
of performance profile.
However,
remember that XAN has to communicate with
a controller to do things like change
file attributes or even look up a file,
because it has to do path name
resolution through that controller.
So in many ways,
it behaves a lot like a network volume.
And with all the sort of latency and
whatnot that go along with those type
of operations on a network volume.
So, Xsan is also a POSIX volume format.
This is where most of the
differences of HFS+ really lie.
In a lot of ways,
Xsan is very much like UFS in the way
it behaves in terms of its POSIX-ness.
And in fact, one of the first things that
the Xsan engineering team does
is when we see a compatibility
problem with an application,
the first thing we do is attempt
to reproduce that problem with
the UFS file system because
they're so alike in many ways.
So, first of all,
there's no resource fork.
So, it's a single-fork file system.
Any application that uses a resource
fork using the resource manager,
basically that is going to be
emulated by the file manager,
and you get those little
dot-on-a-bar Apple double files
littered all over your file system.
So, the emulation of the resource fork,
you know, works pretty well,
but it's not perfect.
So, just keep that in mind.
So,
there's also no exchange data operation.
There are a number of applications out
there that are based on Carbon that
use exchange data in order to
implement atomic save operations.
Those did not work on Xsan.
Next,
there is no catalog search operation.
Catalog search APIs that are available
in the file manager are very tied to
the way the HFS+ catalog file works.
Doing the same types of queries
with the same type of API is
not really feasible on Xsan,
so we don't provide that underlying
file system hook that the file
manager uses to do those queries.
And finally,
Xsan is always case-sensitive.
So, HFS+ also has the capability of
being a case-sensitive file system.
However, it is not the default for HFS+.
And this might seem like kind
of a trivial or minor issue,
but believe it or not,
when we were doing our qualification
phase with Xsan 1.4 release,
we actually found a test suite
for an application that failed
specifically because it encoded
file names inconsistently
with respect to their case.
So, with those characteristics in mind,
let's talk about some of the
important do's and don'ts.
So, first of all,
every single one of you,
when you're writing an application
that saves a file to disk,
you should be using one of
the pre-allocation APIs that
are available to you.
You can do this on any
file system -- Xsan,
HFS -- any file system that
doesn't support it will
just give you back an error,
which you can just ignore.
There's no reason not to do this,
and there's plenty of reasons to do this,
which we'll cover in just a second.
There's basically two
APIs available to you for this.
There's the FSAllocate fork
API and the file manager,
and there's also an F-control
operation for applications that
are written at the BSD layer,
or if you're a Cocoa application,
you can use some of the NSFileManager and
FileHandle APIs to get file descriptors
for those files and then use F-control.
So, there are really two reasons that
you would want to pre-allocate files.
One is to minimize file fragmentation,
which is what I have here on my slide.
Now,
when you're writing a file out to disk,
the whole thing doesn't
magically appear all at once.
It gets written out in pieces.
When that happens,
Xsan has to extend the file
every time you write to it.
Now, in many circumstances,
Xsan is able to make good decisions
about where to allocate those
blocks in order to keep them as
contiguous on disk as possible,
which helps with reading them back.
You get higher performance
reading them back.
But especially in cases where you
have a large number of clients
that are writing concurrently,
Xsan cannot always make the best choices.
So, you know,
we really strongly recommend
that your application,
which, after all,
has the high-level semantic knowledge
about what's really going on,
we really recommend that you tell
the file system what you want to
do instead of making it guess.
So, this can actually have a
huge impact on performance,
and what I'm going to do here is
kind of walk through an example,
of a scenario where an application
was not using preallocation,
performed badly,
and they used preallocation,
and they worked great.
It's an application I'm sure
you're all familiar with.
It's the iTunes Music Store.
So the iTunes Music Store,
they actually use Xsan as kind of a
key component of their workflow that
converts the MPEG-2 content that they
get from content providers into the iPod
H.264 format that you all know and love.
Back when there were only a couple
of shows on the iTunes Music Store,
they had kind of a human-driven
workflow that wasn't perfect,
but it was workable.
You know, content came in,
person sat down at a desk and dragged
that content to the SAN and started
marshalling it through the process.
Well, pretty soon a couple of shows
became a couple of dozen,
and this sort of human-driven workflow
wasn't working so well anymore.
People were staying late,
and they started to look and smell funny
because they never left the office.
And, you know,
they realized that they needed to
do something a little different.
So they realized they needed
automation in this process.
So they wrote some tools that
automated the process of,
you know, content gets uploaded,
and it gets pushed through the system,
and out comes an iPod video.
Well,
I was actually standing out in front
of a Walgreens near my house one night
and my cell phone rang and I got this
kind of panic phone call from one of
the music store engineers who told
me about this horrible performance
problem they were seeing and they were
under the gun to get some content up
before a deadline and could I help them.
So I told them I'd be happy to help them.
I took a look,
and with some drilling down,
we actually discovered that the
files that they were processing,
they were having so many problems,
were heavily fragmented.
We're talking thousands,
and in some cases tens of thousands,
of individual chunks on
the disk for each file.
Now, as a result,
what was happening is when
those files were read back by
their post-processing tools,
they --
So, really a couple of things.
First of all, there's, I don't know, 20,
30 machines on this SAN that are
actually doing the post-processing.
And the load of those computers
asking for the extent list from the
controller each time was actually
causing the Xsan controller to be
just pegged in terms of CPU usage.
It was really busy.
Now, kind of a secondary effect of the
files being fragmented were that they
were spread out all over the disk,
right?
They were, you know,
a chunk here and a chunk
here and a chunk there.
And the clients were not
able to stream that data off
disk in an efficient manner.
The actual just I/O was slow
because the RAIDs couldn't,
you know, prefetch the data on
disk and stream it out.
Now,
what was curious is that there was some
content that they had not yet moved
over to this new workflow that was still
being marshaled through by human beings.
And all that was working just fine.
You know,
their sort of expected performance
because of the amount of processing
that they have to do -- it
was about two times real-time.
So a 30-minute show takes
about an hour to process.
And the humans were basically
beating the computers,
and that's sort of counterintuitive.
Well,
it turns out that what was happening
is the finder in Mac OS X actually
pre-allocates the space for files
when it copies into an Xsan volume.
So there were a couple things
that we did to kind of,
you know, get them over the hump, right?
We used some tools to
defragment their file system.
And then we provided them with
a little teeny five-line patch
they were able to apply to a
Python module that they were using.
And they went from the six times
real-time that was just killing them
all the way back to two times real-time.
They gained all of their time.
performance back with just a simple
five line change to their source code.
So the next thing that all
your applications should be
doing is using large I/O sizes.
Large I/O sizes are much more
efficient in a SAN environment.
Actually,
they're much more efficient everywhere,
but the consequences of not
using them are a little more
readily apparent on a SAN.
So there's a couple of
reasons why this is.
First of all,
when you use large I/O sizes,
you're sort of --
Amortizing the overhead of the
disk transactions over the wire.
There's commands and headers
back in the responses.
And the more data that you ship over
the wire with each one of those,
the more efficiency you're going to
get out of the actual storage network.
But secondly,
so one of the things that operating
systems do is they go to great
lengths to try to make I/O that goes
out to the file system sequential.
So when you're talking
about a single computer,
talking to its internal
drives or to a FireWire drive,
This is no problem.
The operating system lines up all I/O,
spits it out,
the disk is very happy because
sequential I/O is much more
efficient for a disk drive.
But think about what happens when
you have a lot of computers on a
SAN talking to the same pool of disks.
Suddenly,
even though each of those computers
might be doing sequential I/O,
by the time it gets to the disk,
it effectively looks random because
they're all reading different files.
So the bigger the I/O size is that you
actually issue out to those drives,
the more efficiently the drive is
able to schedule that I/O internally,
and then it can do sequential
I/O within the context of that
one operation -- single operation.
So it can just perform more efficiently.
So again, we're going to take a look
at the iTunes Music Store,
because they actually had a
little performance problem with an
application that they used to upload
content from the content providers
up to the SAN to start processing.
So again, we're going to take a look
at the iTunes Music Store,
because they actually had a
little performance problem with an
application that they used to upload
content from the content providers
up to the SAN to start processing.
So I went on over and we
discussed what was going on.
They were having just
kind of bad performance.
There was lots of idle time on the
CPU and made a couple of suggestions
to this application developer.
The first one, of course,
was make sure to pre-allocate
your space on disk.
But as we talked a little more,
we came to discover that they
actually had some code in this
application that would buffer up
the I/O to 64 kilobyte or 1 megabyte
chunks and spit it out to disk.
in those big chunks.
But that code was not enabled
on a Mac OS X platform.
Instead, what they were doing is when a
packet came in from the network,
they were extracting data out of
that packet and then just spitting
it out to the right place on disk.
So remember,
the Ethernet MTU is 1,500 bytes,
and so for every three packets that
they were getting from the network,
three packets or so,
they were actually having
to read a file system block,
modify part of it, and write it back out.
So it's basically three times
the amount of I/O that you
would normally need to do.
So I made a little suggestion to
them that they actually enable this
buffer at I/O for Mac OS X as well.
And kind of for two reasons.
One, just for all the benefits
of using a large I/O size,
but also, you know,
if you're buffering it up in a nice,
you know, rounded power of two increment,
you get to write it out
on block boundaries,
which means you eliminate
all those read-modify-write
cycles in the file system.
And as you can see,
the results were absolutely outstanding.
They got a 23 times improvement
in performance by simply turning
on buffering in their code.
It went from 10 megabytes per
second to an aggregate throughput
of 203 megabytes per second.
Now,
how many of you watch the Daily Show or
the Colbert Report or anything like that?
Yeah?
Do you watch it on iTunes?
Sometimes, maybe?
Okay.
It would not be possible to
get the content uploaded on a
daily basis without this change.
So every time you get your fix,
you're going to get a new one.
just remember that this made it possible.
So I expect this is going to be
kind of a controversial suggestion,
to use the setAddrList system
call for a couple of reasons.
One, it's not a POSIX system call.
It's available at the BSD layer,
but it's only available on Mac OS X.
And second of all,
it's not really the most
straightforward API to use.
However, if you are an application that,
you know,
say you're a file service application,
You can change the attributes
of files frequently.
This enables you to reduce the
number of messages that you
send to the Xsan controller.
Remember, the Xsan controller is
connected to a network,
and the communication
latency is network-like.
It's not just like modifying
a data structure in memory.
So, by using the setAddrList system call,
instead of discrete chown and chmod
and chgroup and utimes and all those
other things to change file attributes,
you can collapse all that stuff
from the end messages into one
and get better performance.
The example I'm going to turn to
here is the Mac OS X AFP server.
Some time ago we were investigating
an escalation we got from a customer.
They were having some bad performance
when they were copying a folder
that had tens of thousands of
small files in it to an AFP share
that was backed by Xsan volume.
In the end,
we actually made several changes
to the file system that improved
the performance for the customer.
But one of the things we noticed
during our investigation was that we
saw a lot of what seemed to be very
redundant set attribute operations
going from the client to the controller.
So we drilled down in this a little more,
and one of the places we looked
was inside the Carbon File Manager.
So that's the framework on top
of which the AFP server is built.
It turned out that there are
two code paths in File Manager:
one for HFS+ and one for
basically everything else,
for positive volumes.
It turned out that there are
two code paths in File Manager:
one for HFS+ and one for
basically everything else,
for positive volumes.
So what we did is we modified the
file manager to use the same code
path for file set attributes for
POSIX files as it did for HFS+.
And just with that simple change,
we actually squeezed another 10% out
of the little test that we were using,
which was to copy a large folder
of Keynote presentations that
had a bunch of small files in it.
And we gained 10% on that benchmark,
which if you're doing performance tuning,
10% is not really anything to sneeze at.
So the next thing that you're going
to want to avail yourself of is
the Disk Arbitration Framework.
We actually recently ran into
an application that started
early in the boot process,
and it was sometimes
failing in strange ways,
and sort of more to the point,
it was actually causing Xsan to fail
in strange ways because it was making
bad assumptions about whether or
not the Xsan volume that it expected
to be mounted was actually mounted.
It was testing certain conditions,
and when those things evaluated to true,
it assumed that the
Xsan volume was there,
even though those conditions really
had nothing to do with whether or
not the volume is actually mounted.
[Transcript missing]
So we suggested to that
application developer,
"You really ought to be
using disk arbitration,
because it can do a couple
of things for you." One,
you can ask it if a
certain volume is mounted,
and it will give you a
definitive yes or no.
You can also register for a
notification from the framework
whenever a volume is mounted,
or also when an existing
volume goes away.
So,
I guess my broader point here is that,
as of Tiger, we all live in this world
of deferred initialization.
We are moving away from startup
items and going more toward launch-D.
And this overall is a very,
very good thing.
There's a lot of benefits to that.
Your systems boot up much faster
now than they did in Panther,
and that's largely due to the fact
that we have deferred initialization.
However,
it can sometimes break assumptions
that applications make that are
bad assumptions in the world
of deferred initialization.
So, please, make use of all the different
types of notification facilities
that are available in Mac OS X,
not just disk arbitration,
because it will make your lives
a lot easier in the long run.
So next, the resource fork.
Do not use this.
Please, please, please.
As I said before,
we're a single fork file system.
All that resource fork stuff is emulated.
And as I said before,
it's not always perfect.
And it leaves these other
little files that Mac OS X knows
about and knows how to process.
But other systems connected to the
SAN may not know anything about.
And remember,
XSAN is actually compatible with
some third party SAN products.
And those Linux or Windows systems
don't know about this Apple double file.
So if you rename your file,
suddenly you've lost your
resource fork information.
And that's not good.
So the new way to do this in
Mac OS X is to use bundles.
So I realize that for a lot
of you who write applications
that use a resource fork,
this is a file format change.
But in your next major release,
I strongly encourage you to
consider making this change because
you're just going to gain kind of
broader compatibility everywhere.
And there are both
C and Objective-C APIs,
the CFBundle and S bundle APIs.
So it's available to a
wide array of applications.
Okay, FS Exchange Objects.
This is something that you
should not be using either.
This is an API that's
in the file manager,
and as I described before,
Xsan doesn't support this.
What Exchange Objects does is it allows
you to take one file and another file and
atomically swap the data forks of them.
And what applications use this for is
to implement a safe-save operation.
That is, basically,
when a user saves a file,
they expect either the new contents to
be there or the old contents to be there,
and not a mixture of both.
And that's what this API call
allows applications to implement.
So, it's not available on Xsan.
It's also not available on
UFS or FAT or anything like that.
So, what can you do instead?
Well, what you can do instead is you
can create a temporary file,
and then you can rename the temporary
file to the original file name.
And on all the file
systems that we support,
that is also an atomic operation
and gives you the same semantics.
There are some caveats, however.
When you use Exchange Objects,
you're only exchanging the data forks.
So all the other attributes
of the original file,
like the owner and permissions
and all that stuff,
remain intact.
However,
when you create a temporary file,
the owner and the group and the
permissions and the timestamps
and all those other things
are going to be different.
So your application has to be aware of
that and actually copy the attributes
to the temporary file that you
want to preserve from the original.
It's a little tedious.
There's not really
another way to do this,
especially in a
Carbon application right now.
However, there are APIs in
Cocoa that do this for you,
so maybe you can consider
switching to those.
Any of the classes that provide sort
of write-to-file atomically methods
actually do this work for you.
There are other classes that
don't provide this exact method
but that implement the methods
that they use on top of this one.
And this document is one such example.
So those are the do's and don'ts.
Those are really the main key points
that you as application developers
need to keep in mind when you're
developing applications and you want
to maximize both your performance
and your compatibility with Xsan.
[Transcript missing]
So, how many of you are excited about
those cool new Macs that were
introduced earlier this week?
You like those?
Raise your hand, yeah?
Guess what?
Xsan now works with them.
So we actually are shipping
universal binaries in Xsan 1.4.
And in addition to Xsan being
ready for those new machines,
those new machines are
basically ready for Xsan.
They actually -- all of them come
with dual-gigabit Ethernet networks,
so you have -- you don't need to
buy another network card in order to
have that private Ethernet network.
Really,
the only thing you need to buy for them
is the PCI Express Fibre Channel card.
Last year at WWDC,
I got a lot of questions
about this next one.
A lot of people were asking me,
"So there's this new snazzy access
control list architecture in Tiger.
Does Xsan work with
it?" And unfortunately,
my answer last year was kind of a
meek "no." But I have good news.
This year, I can say that Xsan 1.4
supports access control lists.
Not only does it work just like
Access Control Lists work on every
other file system in Mac OS X,
it also interoperates with ADIC's
StoreNext file system and the
Access Control Lists that they
support on their Windows client.
So, and like always,
there's lots and lots of bug fixes.
So all told, we made over 100 software
changes in Xsan 1.4.
And a lot of those were actually in
direct response to you guys filing
bug reports through Bug Reporter or
participating in customer seeding,
so I'd like to just take a minute to
thank you for providing your feedback.
And for those of you who
don't participate in that,
I'm going to encourage you to participate
in both our customer seeding program and
our developer seeding program for Xsan.
You get early access to Xsan releases,
and we like to hear feedback,
and of course, we'd like you to test your
applications with Xsan.
So we're going to go
ahead and wrap up here,
just to kind of review some of
the points we've touched on.
First of all,
Xsan allows for shared volume access at
high speed directly over a fiber channel.
And it also allows you to configure your
storage in a flexible manner that works
for the type of work that you need to do.
Of course,
applications need to be aware of
Xsan's somewhat unique characteristics.
But more importantly,
they can be tuned for better
performance on Xsan once you're
aware of those characteristics.
And then finally, of course,
Xsan now supports the new
Intel Macs and Access Control Lists.
So finally, again,
I just want to reiterate that
ADC Select and Premier members,
you have early access
to these Xsan seeds.
I really, really, really encourage you
to participate in this.
The more feedback we get, the better.
We love it when you guys
use this stuff early.
And one of the things
that I'm often asked,
even within Apple,
by other teams in the company,
We don't have an Xsan.
We don't know how to
test our stuff with Xsan.
We don't know how to fix this
bug that people are seeing
because we don't have a SAN.
Well, you can actually use Firewire for
basic Xsan compatibility testing.
This is especially
good for smaller shops.
You don't necessarily have to break the
bank to buy a bunch of stuff in order
to just do basic compatibility testing.
I'm going to be working with
Developer Technical Support to
get an article written.
You can just have one place you can
reference for the steps to do this.
It's very simple.
It's basically exactly the
same as setting it up with
a regular fiber channel,
except there's less
stuff to hook together.
That's really about all
I have for you today.
Just to kind of reference
you to some more information,
I really strongly encourage all of you
who are either running Xsan or thinking
about switching to Xsan to go to the
Xsan Best Practices session that is
in this room this afternoon at 3:30.
JD is going to be presenting that.
He's got a lot of experience in
doing Xsan deployments for customers.
Bring your questions.
He's got a lot of good info for you guys.
And I'll actually be on the
Q&A panel for that as well.
So any questions that we don't
get to today or if you have
something you think of later,
I'll be available at that time.
And then I just want to point you
to just a couple of places online.
First of all,
the Xsan webpages at www.apple.com/xsan.
In addition to basic product information,
there are links to the support pages,
and also there are frequently
updated links to new customer
deployment scenarios that
make for an interesting read.
Also,
there's a great mailing list out there.
If you're a Xsan user,
you can find a lot of Xsan
users at list.apple.com.
There's quite a vibrant Xsan
user community out there.
For those of you who are using or
deploying Xsan in your IT environment,
this is just a great place to
meet other Xsan users and bounce
ideas and problems off of them.
And for those of you who are
developing applications for Xsan,
it's a great potential place to find
testers or people to buy the stuff.